doc: add the blog post for the first major release of Notary Project (#300)
notaryproject/notaryproject.dev: content/en/blog/2023/announcing-notation-v1.0.0.md

---
title: Notation v1.0.0 is available!
author:  "Notation Release Team"
date: 2023-08-10
draft: false
---

The Notary Project maintainers are thrilled to announce the first stable release of Notation, including [notation v1.0.0](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation/releases/tag/v1.0.0), [notation-go v1.0.0](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-go/releases/tag/v1.0.0), [notation-core-go v1.0.0](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-core-go/releases/tag/v1.0.0), and [Notary Project specifications v1.0.0](https://github.com/notaryproject/specifications/releases/tag/v1.0.0) which are ready for production use!

## What is Notation

> As containers and cloud native artifacts become the common unit of deployment, users want to know the artifacts in their environments are authentic and unmodified. The Notary Project is a set of specifications and tools intended to provide a cross-industry standards for securing software supply chains through signing and verification, signature portability, and key/certificate management. It aims to solve the core issue of trusting content within and across OCI compliant registries.

Reviewer: Small verbiage suggestions: "As containers and cloud native artifacts become common deployment units, users want to be sure that the artifacts in their environments are authentic and unmodified. The Notary Project is a set of specifications and tools intended to provide cross-industry standards for securing software supply chains through signing and verification, signature portability, and key/certificate management. Notary aims to solve the core issue of “content trust” within and across OCI compliant registries."

Author: Thanks @Pabloshub . Updated. Note that we will use "Notary Project" as the project name, see https://notaryproject.dev/docs/faq/#notary-project-terms

---
title: Notation v1.0.0 is available!
author:  "Notation Release Team"
date: 2023-08-10
draft: false
---

The Notary Project maintainers are thrilled to announce the first stable release of Notation, including [notation v1.0.0](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation/releases/tag/v1.0.0), [notation-go v1.0.0](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-go/releases/tag/v1.0.0), [notation-core-go v1.0.0](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-core-go/releases/tag/v1.0.0), and [Notary Project specifications v1.0.0](https://github.com/notaryproject/specifications/releases/tag/v1.0.0) which are ready for production use!

## What is Notation

As containers and cloud native artifacts become the common unit of deployment, users want to know the artifacts in their environments are authentic and unmodified. The Notary Project is a set of specifications and tools intended to provide a cross-industry standards for securing software supply chains through signing and verification, signature portability, and key/certificate management. It aims to solve the core issue of trusting content within and across OCI compliant registries.

> Notation ( a reference implementation of the latest [Notary Project specifications](https://github.com/notaryproject/specifications/releases/tag/v1.0.0), previously known as Notary v2) is a sub-project of Notary Project GitHub organization. It has notation CLI and two Golang libraries, which are implemented from the Notary Project specifications. Notation was started in [Dec 2019](https://github.com/notaryproject/meeting-notes/blob/main/meeting-notes-2019.md#notary-v2-kickoff-meeting) and the code  has matured through a series of minor and RC releases over the last few years, the first release [v0.7.0-alpha.1](https://notaryproject.dev/blog/2021/announcing-notation-alpha1/) was available in Oct 2021 and reached [v1.0.0-RC.7](https://notaryproject.dev/blog/2023/announcing-notation-rc6/) in May 2023.

Reviewer 2: suggest remove `Notary v2` and avoid mentioning this term.
```suggestion
Notation (a reference implementation of the latest [Notary Project specifications](https://github.com/notaryproject/specifications/releases/tag/v1.0.0)) is a sub-project of Notary Project GitHub organization. It has `notation` CLI and two Golang libraries, which are implemented from the Notary Project specifications. Notation was started in [Dec 2019](https://github.com/notaryproject/meeting-notes/blob/main/meeting-notes-2019.md#notary-v2-kickoff-meeting) and the code has matured through a series of minor and RC releases over the last few years, the first release [v0.7.0-alpha.1](https://notaryproject.dev/blog/2021/announcing-notation-alpha1/) was available in Oct 2021 and reached [v1.0.0-RC.7](https://notaryproject.dev/blog/2023/announcing-notation-rc6/) in May 2023.
```

## Highlights

There are some remarkable new features and updates in Notation v1.0.0. This blog post walks through the major updates in this release.

### Strengthen signing and verification functionalities

From the software producer's perspective, signing a software artifact is the way to ensure authenticity and trust when distributing a software to consumers. Notation v1.0.0 provides the follow core capabilities for the signing experience.

- Sign artifacts using signing keys stored securely in key management system (KMS) using vendor or customer specific plugins
- Store signatures using [OCI Image Manifest](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/v1.1.0-rc3/spec.md) for standardization and portability
- Support two signature envelope formats - [JWS](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/v1.0.0/specs/signature-envelope-jws.md) and [COSE](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/v1.0.0/specs/signature-envelope-cose.md) for interoperability

> From the software consumer's perspective, verifying the signature of a signed artifact ensure the integrity and provenance. Notation v1.0.0 provides the following core capabilities for verification experience:

Reviewer 2: verifying doesn't ensure provenance only integrity and authenticity

> - Verify signatures using [trust store and trust policy](https://github.com/notaryproject/specifications/blob/v1.0.0/specs/trust-store-trust-policy.md) with fine-tuned configuration for repository specific, multiple signature verification levels - audit, enforce, or intuitive control.  [notation policy](https://notaryproject.dev/docs/cli-reference/notation_policy/) command is also introduced in v1 release to simplify the policy management

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Verify signatures using [trust store and trust policy](https://github.com/notaryproject/specifications/blob/v1.0.0/specs/trust-store-trust-policy.md) with fine-tuned configuration for repository specific, and multiple signature verification levels.  [`notation policy`](https://notaryproject.dev/docs/cli-reference/notation_policy/) command is also introduced in v1 release to simplify the policy management
```

- Support validating certificate revocation with [Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6960)

### Enhanced debug and troubleshooting experience

[notation inspect](https://notaryproject.dev/docs/cli-reference/notation_inspect/) command is available to get detailed information of signatures associated with the signed artifact in a human readable view.

> In addition, `--verbose` flag with all CLI commands, providing debug and troubleshooting capability for Notation developers and users respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition, `--verbose` flag with all CLI commands, providing troubleshooting capability for Notation developers and users respectively.
```

- [Sign and verify an image with Notation, Ratify, and OPA Gatekeeper](https://ratify.dev/blog/sign-and-verify-image-with-notation-ratify)
- [Verify CNCF Notary Project signatures with Kyverno](https://kyverno.io/docs/writing-policies/verify-images/notary/)

![](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/S1bow5HO2.png)

## Security audit report

The Notary project also completed fuzzing audit and security audit in 2023. All vulnerabilities found during the audit are fixed in Notation v1.0.0 (and also present in the prior v1.0.0 RC-7 release). You can find two audit reports as follows.

- [Notation Security Audit Report 2023](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/security/reports/audit/ADA-notation-security-audit-23.pdf)
- [Notary Project fuzzing audit report 22-23](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/tree/main/security/reports/fuzzing/ADA-fuzzing-audit-22-23.pdf)

## What's the next

The following new features are planned for the upcoming milestones. Feel free to let us know if you any ideas or requirements.

> - Sign and verify arbitrary file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Sign and verify an arbitrary file
```

Notation (previously known as Notary v2) is a sub-project of Notary Project. It has notation CLI and two Golang libraries, which are implemented from the Notary Project specifications. Notation was started in [Dec 2019](https://github.com/notaryproject/meeting-notes/blob/main/meeting-notes-2019.md#notary-v2-kickoff-meeting) and the code case has matured through a series of minor and RC releases over the last four years, the first release [v0.7.0-alpha.1](https://notaryproject.dev/blog/2021/announcing-notation-alpha1/) was available in Oct 2021 and reached [v1.0.0-RC.7](https://notaryproject.dev/blog/2023/announcing-notation-rc6/) in May 2023.

## Highlights

There are some remarkable new features and updates in Notation v1.0.0. This blog post walks through the major updates in this release.

### Improved signing and verification functionalities

> From the software producer's perspective, signing an artifact is the way to ensure authenticity and trust when distributing a software to consumers. Notation v1.0.0 added new capabilities to signing experience. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
From the software producer's perspective, signing an artifact is the way to ensure authenticity and trust when distributing a software to consumers. Notation v1.0.0 provides the follow capabilities for the signing experience. 
```
I would refrain from using the word "Added" as it implies we added something in v1.0.0 as compared to RC-7, which we didn't.

> - Sign artifacts using signing keys stored securely in key management system (KMS)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Sign artifacts using signing keys stored securely in key management system (KMS) using vendor or customer specific plugins
```

> - Store signatures using [OCI Image Manifest](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/v1.1.0-rc3/spec.md) for standarization and better portability

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Store signatures using [OCI Image Manifest](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/v1.1.0-rc3/spec.md) for standardization and portability
```

> - Support two signature envelope formats - [JWS](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/v1.0.0/specs/signature-envelope-jws.md) and [COSE](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/v1.0.0/specs/signature-envelope-cose.md)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Support two signature envelope formats - [JWS](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/v1.0.0/specs/signature-envelope-jws.md) and [COSE](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/v1.0.0/specs/signature-envelope-cose.md) for interoperability
```

> From the software consumer's perspective, verifying the signature of a signed artifact is the key method to ensure the integrity and security. Notation v1.0.0 added new capabilities to verification experience.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
From the software consumer's perspective, verifying the signature of a signed artifact ensure the integrity and provenance. Notation v1.0.0 provides multiple capabilities for verification experience, including
```

> - Verify signatures using trust store and trust policy with fine-tuned configurations. [notation policy](https://notaryproject.dev/docs/cli-reference/notation_policy/) command was introduced to simplify the trust policy management.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Verify signatures using trust store and trust policy with fine-tuned configurations [notation policy](https://notaryproject.dev/docs/cli-reference/notation_policy/) for repository specific, multiple signature verification levels - audit or enforce, and intuitive control.
```

- Support validating certificate revocation with [Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6960)

### Enhanced debug and troubleshooting experience

> [notation inspect](https://notaryproject.dev/docs/cli-reference/notation_inspect/) command was introduced to get detailed information of signatures associated with the signed artifact in a human readable view.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[notation inspect](https://notaryproject.dev/docs/cli-reference/notation_inspect/) command to get detailed information of signatures associated with the signed artifact in a human readable view.
```

> In addition, `--verbose` flag was added to all CLI commands, providing debug and troubleshooting capability for Notation developers and users respectively.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition, `--verbose` flag with all CLI commands, providing debug and troubleshooting capability for Notation developers and users respectively.
```

> ### Introduced experimental features and switch

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
###  Experimental features
```

Experimental features are intended for testing and evaluation purposes only and should not be used in production environments. Users can enable experimental features in Notation CLI by setting the environment variable `NOTATION_EXPERIMENTAL` to 1. 

There are two major features which are marked as experimental stage but might be useful in some specific scenarios.
 
- Support [signing, listing and verification with OCI image layout](https://notaryproject.dev/docs/how-to/oci-image-layout/) for signing images before they are pushed to a registry. It enables users to sign and verify images in an air-gapped environment.
- Support [OCI distribution referrers API](https://github.com/opencontainers/distribution-spec/blob/v1.1.0-rc2/spec.md#enabling-the-referrers-api), which allows Notation CLI to fetch a list of referrers in an efficient and clean manner.

### Better extensibility and more plugins support

> Notation has an [extensible plugin framework design](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/plugin-extensibility.md) which provides plugin interfaces for users, and vendors to implement their own integrations with the solutions they use. Notation has the following plugins available to use now. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Notation has an [extensible plugin framework design](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/plugin-extensibility.md) which provides plugin interfaces for users and vendors to implement their own integrations with the key/certificate management solutions or signing service. Notation has the following plugins available to use now. 
```

- AWS Signer plugin
- Azure Key Vault plugin
- HashiCorp Vault plugin (Alpha)

### Integration with admission controller for Kubernetes usage

As more and more users are requesting to verify and secure image deployment on Kubernetes, the Notary Project maintainers worked with the [Ratify](https://github.com/deislabs/ratify) and [Kyverno](https://kyverno.io/) team respectively to provide solutions for verifying images signed by Notation before deploying them to Kubernetes. Users will have two different options to build a complete end-to-end image integrity workflow for their environments. See the following two guides for details.

- [Sign and verify an image with Notation, Ratify, and OPA Gatekeeper](https://ratify.dev/blog/sign-and-verify-image-with-notation-ratify)
- [Verify CNCF Notary Project signatures with Kyverno](https://kyverno.io/docs/writing-policies/verify-images/notary/)

![](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/S1bow5HO2.png)

## Security audit report

> The Notary project also completed fuzzing audit and security audit in 2023. Some known vulnerabilities had been fixed by the Notary Project maintainers before Notation v1.0.0. You can find two audit reports as follows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Notary project also completed fuzzing audit and security audit in 2023. All vulnerabilities found during audit are fixed in Notation v1.0.0 (and also present in the prior RC-7 release). You can find two audit reports as follows.
```

- [Notation Security Audit Report 2023](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/security/reports/audit/ADA-notation-security-audit-23.pdf)
- [Notary Project fuzzing audit report 22-23](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/tree/main/security/reports/fuzzing/ADA-fuzzing-audit-22-23.pdf)

## Community status

Add CNCF annual review report (PR link, TBD)

## What's the next

> (TBD) Introduce new features planned for the upcoming milestone.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(TBD) Introduce new features planned for the upcoming milestone. Follow the "Notary Project" project for dates on
```

---
title: Notation v1.0.0 is available!
author:  "Notation Release Team"
date: 2023-07-15
draft: false
---

The Notary Project maintainers are thrilled to announce the first stable release of Notation, including [notation v1.0.0](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation/releases/tag/v1.0.0), [notation-go v1.0.0](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-go/releases/tag/v1.0.0), [notation-core-go v1.0.0](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-core-go/releases/tag/v1.0.0) which are ready for production use! 

## What is Notation

As containers and cloud native artifacts become the common unit of deployment, users want to know the artifacts in their environments are authentic and unmodified. The Notary Project is a set of specifications and tools intended to provide a cross-industry standard for securing software supply chains through signing and verification, signature portability, and key management. It aims to solve the core issue of trusting content within, and across registries. 

> Notation (previously known as Notary v2) is a sub-project of Notary. It has notation CLI and two Golang libraries, which are implemented from the Notary specifications. Notation was started in [Dec 2019](https://github.com/notaryproject/meeting-notes/blob/main/meeting-notes-2019.md#notary-v2-kickoff-meeting) and the code case has matured through a series of minor and RC releases over the last four years, the first release [v0.7.0-alpha.1](https://notaryproject.dev/blog/2021/announcing-notation-alpha1/) was available in Oct 2021 and reached [v1.0.0-RC.7](https://notaryproject.dev/blog/2023/announcing-notation-rc6/) in May 2023.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notation is a sub-project of Notary Project. It has notation CLI and two Golang libraries, which are implemented from the Notary Project specifications. Notation was started in [Dec 2019](https://github.com/notaryproject/meeting-notes/blob/main/meeting-notes-2019.md#notary-v2-kickoff-meeting) and the code case has matured through a series of minor and RC releases over the last four years, the first release [v0.7.0-alpha.1](https://notaryproject.dev/blog/2021/announcing-notation-alpha1/) was available in Oct 2021 and reached [v1.0.0-RC.7](https://notaryproject.dev/blog/2023/announcing-notation-rc6/) in May 2023.
```

## Highlights

There are some remarkable new features and updates in Notation v1.0.0. This blog post walks through the major updates in this release.

> ### Improved signing and verification functionalities

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### signing and verification of container images and other OCI artifacts
```

- Support two signature envelope formats - [JWS](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/v1.0.0/specs/signature-envelope-jws.md) and [COSE](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/v1.0.0/specs/signature-envelope-cose.md)

From the software consumer's perspective, verifying the signature of a signed artifact is the key method to ensure the integrity and security. Notation v1.0.0 added new capabilities to verification experience.

- Verify signatures using trust store and trust policy with fine-tuned configurations. [notation policy](https://notaryproject.dev/docs/cli-reference/notation_policy/) command was introduced to simplify the trust policy management.
- Support validating certificate revocation with [Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6960)

### Enhanced debug and troubleshooting experience

[notation inspect](https://notaryproject.dev/docs/cli-reference/notation_inspect/) command was introduced to get detailed information of signatures associated with the signed artifact in a human readable view.

> In addition, `--debug` and `--verbose` flags were added to all CLI commands, providing debug and troubleshooting capability for Notation developers and users respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition, `--verbose` flags was added to all CLI commands, providing debug and troubleshooting capability for Notation developers and users respectively.
```

There are two major features which are marked as experimental stage but might be useful in some specific scenarios.
 
- Support [signing, listing and verification with OCI image layout](https://notaryproject.dev/docs/how-to/oci-image-layout/) for signing images before they are pushed to a registry. It enables users to sign and verify images in an air-gapped environment.
- Support [OCI distribution referrers API](https://github.com/opencontainers/distribution-spec/blob/v1.1.0-rc2/spec.md#enabling-the-referrers-api), which allows Notation CLI to fetch a list of referrers in an efficient and clean manner.

### Better extensibility and more plugins support

Notation has an [extensible plugin framework design](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/plugin-extensibility.md) which provides plugin interfaces for users, and vendors to implement their own integrations with the solutions they use. Notation has the following plugins available to use now. 

- AWS Signer plugin
- Azure Key Vault plugin

> - HashiCorp Vault plugin (Experimental)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- HashiCorp Vault plugin (Alpha)
```

### Integration with admission controller for Kubernetes usage

> As more and more users are requesting to verify and secure image deployment on Kubernetes, the Notary maintainers worked with the [Ratify](https://github.com/deislabs/ratify) and [Kyverno](https://kyverno.io/) team respectively to provide solutions for verifying images signed by Notation before deploying them to Kubernetes. Users will have two different options to build a complete end-to-end image integrity workflow for their environments. See the following two guides for details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As more and more users are requesting to verify and secure image deployment on Kubernetes, the Notary Project maintainers worked with the [Ratify](https://github.com/deislabs/ratify) and [Kyverno](https://kyverno.io/) team respectively to provide solutions for verifying images signed by Notation before deploying them to Kubernetes. Users will have two different options to build a complete end-to-end image integrity workflow for their environments. See the following two guides for details.
```

> - [Verify CNCF Notary format signatures with Kyverno](https://kyverno.io/docs/writing-policies/verify-images/notary/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Verify CNCF Notary Project signatures with Kyverno](https://kyverno.io/docs/writing-policies/verify-images/notary/)
```

- [Sign and verify an image with Notation, Ratify, and OPA Gatekeeper](https://ratify-web.netlify.app/blog/mdx-blog-post)

![](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/S1bow5HO2.png)

## Security audit report

> The Notary project also completed fuzzing audit and security audit in 2023. Some known vulnerabilities had been fixed by the Notary maintainers before Notation v1.0.0. You can find two audit reports as follows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Notary project also completed fuzzing audit and security audit in 2023. Some known vulnerabilities had been fixed by the Notary Project maintainers before Notation v1.0.0. You can find two audit reports as follows.
```

> - [Notary Security Audit Report 2023 (TBD)]()

Reviewer 2: Missing the link

> - [Notary Security Audit Report 2023 (TBD)]()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Notary Project Security Audit Report 2023 (TBD)]()
```

> - [Notary fuzzing audit report 22-23](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/tree/main/security/reports/fuzzing/ADA-fuzzing-audit-22-23.pdf)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Notary Project fuzzing audit report 22-23](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/tree/main/security/reports/fuzzing/ADA-fuzzing-audit-22-23.pdf)
```

## Community status

> Add CNCF annual review report (PR link)

Reviewer 2: We can remove this since it is not ready to avoid confusion

Author: I think the PR for CNCF annual review report is also critical as CNCF TOC has an issue created for this one annual review. I will add the PR link soon

Author: Removed this section to keep limited scope of the release blog post

## What's the next

(TBD) Introduce new features planned for the upcoming milestone

- GitHub Actions and CI/CD integration

> - Plugin lifecycle management

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Plugin lifecycle management
- Manage trust policies via CLI commands
```

> - Sign local file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Sign and verify arbitrary files
```

- Timestamping

## Acknowledgements

> The Notary release team wants to thank the entire Notary community for all the activity and engagement that has been vital for helping the project grow and reach this major milestone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Notary Project release team wants to thank the entire Notary Project community for all the activity and engagement that has been vital for helping the project grow and reach this major milestone.
```
